Loading-projects (#42)
iXtenda/iVP-gitbook: home/ivp-planning/getting-started/loading-projects.md

# Loading Projects

In iVP you can load previously [Saved Projects](saving-projects.md) for continuous work or collaboration. 

## Loading projects step by step:

> To load a project first click on **File -> Open**. A new window will open where you can navigate to the folder that contains the project file you want to load.
> 

Reviewer: I think we could simplify the wording here as well. 

```suggestion
To load a project click on **File -> Open** and select a file.
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Project files can easily be identified by their **.hfc** extension. You can move them to other folders or share them with collogues or customers, but you should not remove or change their extension.
Project files can easily be identified by their **.plan** extension. You can move them to other folders or share them with colleagues or customers, but you should not remove or change their extension.
{% endhint %}

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/iVP\_open\_file\_dialogue.jpg)

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/open_file_dialogue.jpg)
Before iVP actually processes the data from the file you will be asked to set some parameters that specify how the data will be loaded. The options are:

* _**Replace current scene**_**:** if checked iVP will replace the current project with the one stored in the save file
* _**Include PDF if available**_**:** if checked iVP will import the [floor plan](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md) stored in the save file (if there is one)
* _**Resize floor to saved dimensions:**_\*\* \*\* adjusts the current [floor size](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md#floor-plan-size) to the floor size stored in the save file

> * _**Apply highlight colors**_**:** loads and applies [colorings ](../machines/highlighting-objects.md)stored in the save file to specific machines or objects

Reviewer: Still using "save file" here

> * _**Include PDF if available**_**:** if checked iVP will import the [floor plan](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md) stored in the save file (if there is one). _This is a legacy option for old save files and might not be applicable to your .plan-file._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _**Include PDF if available**_**:** if checked iVP will import the [floor plan](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md) stored in the save file (if there is one). _This is a legacy option for old save files and might not be applicable to your plan file._
```

> * _**Resize floor to saved dimensions:**_ adjusts the current [floor size](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md#floor-plan-size) to the floor size stored in the save file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _**Resize floor to saved dimensions:**_ adjusts the current [floor size](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md#floor-plan-size) to the floor size stored in the plan
```

Same as above

Reviewer: This is not done

> * _**Resize floor to saved dimensions:**_ adjusts the current [floor size](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md#floor-plan-size) to the floor size stored in the save file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _**Resize floor to saved dimensions:**_ adjusts the current [floor size](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md#adjusting-the-shape-and-size-of-the-floor-plan) to the floor size stored in the save file
```

Also the heading here seems to have changed, please update the link.

> * _**Resize floor to saved dimensions:**_ adjusts the current [floor size](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md#floor-plan-size) to the floor size stored in the save file

Reviewer: I think bold *and* italics is a bit much here. Could you remove the italics?

> * **Include PDF if available:** if checked iVP will import the [floor plan](../user-interface/the-floor-plan.md) stored in the save file (if there is one). _This is a legacy option for old save files and might not be applicable to your plan file._  

Reviewer: Still using "save file" here

> Please note that while replacing a scene or loading a PDF floor plan when another plan is already in the scene can result in the deletion of the old scene content or the previously used PDF, existing plan files remain untouched. However, there is a risk of losing unsaved progress in the process.

Reviewer: I think this can be further simplified and clarified.

```suggestion
Please note that replacing a scene can result in the deletion of the old scene content. Saved plan files remain untouched, however you will loose unsaved progress.
```
